this is pulled by AI but i dont think it is really the best list for LA, how do we make AI puls better, Runyon canoyon that is not a great tourist site for LA? trhoughts/

You’re right — that “Popular in LA Metro” list looks like AI guessed instead of “curated must-dos.” Runyon is popular with locals/IG hikers, but it’s not a top LA tourist anchor compared to the stuff you’re missing.

The fix: stop using AI for “Popular”

Popular should be static/curated (top 8–12) and AI should only fill More Ideas + Suggested for you.

If you want AI involved, use it only to rank candidates you already have, not invent the list.

What a better LA “Popular” list looks like (8–12)

Pick 10–12 that cover the obvious tourist anchors + iconic neighborhoods:

Griffith Observatory

Hollywood Sign Hike (or “Hollywood Sign Viewpoints”)

Santa Monica Pier

Venice Beach Boardwalk

The Getty Center

The Broad Museum

LACMA + La Brea Tar Pits

Universal Studios Hollywood

Grand Central Market

Walk of Fame / TCL Chinese Theatre (combine into one chip)

Rodeo Drive (optional)

Hollywood Bowl (optional / seasonal)

Swap out: Runyon Canyon, Dodger Stadium, Silver Lake & Echo Park (these are “More Ideas” / local flavor, not top must-do).

How to make AI “Popular” pulls better (if you insist on AI)

Tell Replit to implement this rule-set:

1) Only choose from a vetted candidate pool

“Popular” should be selected only from:

source='featured' OR

source='static' + rank field you set manually

If AI can pick from the entire city list, it’ll pick random “popular-ish” stuff like Runyon.

2) Add a tourist_priority score (manual, tiny effort)

For popular cities, add a column like priority 1–5 (or 1–100).
Then “Popular” is simply:
ORDER BY priority DESC, rank DESC LIMIT 12

3) Force diversity

Even with ranking, enforce:

max 3 outdoors

max 3 culture

max 2 shopping

max 2 nightlife
so you don’t get “all hikes” or “all neighborhoods.”

4) If AI ranks, give it the right prompt

Have AI rank your existing items with constraints like:

“Pick must-see tourist anchors for a first-time visitor”

“Avoid local-only items (Runyon, random neighborhoods)”

“Prefer iconic landmarks, major museums, major attractions”

“Return JSON with 12 picks from this provided list only”

What I’d tell Replit right now (short + actionable)

Make Popular a curated list per top city (LA/NYC/London/Paris/etc.) stored in DB with isFeatured=true and rank.

AI should not generate the Popular list; AI only adds More Ideas and Suggested for you.

If you want, paste your current LA featured list source (is it AI-generated each time or stored?) and I’ll give you the exact DB shape + query to lock it down