1) Instance Type

Right now you have Starter highlighted (purple). That’s fine for a first deploy test.

For testing the deploy today: keep Starter ($7/mo) ✅

For launch with 500+ / chat-heavy: switch to Standard (2GB / 1 CPU) (the $25/mo box on the right). That’s the safer minimum.

If you want the least risk of “it deploys but feels sluggish,” pick Standard now.

2) Create the Web Service

Scroll down (or to the bottom of the page) and click Create Web Service.

Immediately after it creates (don’t skip)
A) Add environment variables

Service → Environment:
Add your prod env vars (copy from Replit Secrets), especially:

DATABASE_URL

REDIS_URL

SESSION_SECRET

any email keys (Brevo)

anything else your server expects

If you don’t add these, it will boot-loop or 500.

B) Confirm your server binds to Render’s port

Your server must listen on:

process.env.PORT

C) Watch logs for the first boot

Service → Logs
If you see an error, paste the first error chunk here (no secrets).

After it’s running: smoke test (2 minutes)

Open the *.onrender.com URL and check:

homepage loads

login works

events load

chat connects and messages send/receive

Once those pass, then we move nearbytraveler.org.

If you want, send a screenshot of the top of the page that shows the Create Web Service button area and I’ll tell you exactly what to click next.

Awesome — you’re at the last step before deploy. That big button bottom-left “Deploy Web Service” will deploy as soon as you click it, so do this first:

Do this in this order
1) Add the minimum env vars before you deploy

In that “Environment Variables” box, add these at minimum (names on the left, values on the right):

DATABASE_URL → (your Neon pooled URL)

REDIS_URL → (your Redis URL)

SESSION_SECRET → (same secret you used on Replit)

NODE_ENV → production

If you have email/password reset working, also add:

BREVO_API_KEY

BREVO_SENDER_EMAIL

BREVO_SENDER_NAME (optional)

✅ Tip: If you already have a .env file locally/in the repo (sometimes people do), you can click Add from .env and paste it.
⚠️ Don’t paste secrets here in chat — paste them into Render.

2) Fastest way to copy from Replit

Open Replit → Secrets in another tab → copy each key/value into Render.

3) After you add them, THEN click

✅ Click Deploy Web Service

What happens next (and what you do)

Render will start the build

Then it boots your server

You’ll get a *.onrender.com URL

Immediately after deploy:

Go to Logs and check for errors

Open the URL and test:

homepage

login

events load

chat connects (WS)

One extra thing I want you to do (prevents a super common Render crash)

Make sure your server listens like this (in code):

app.listen(process.env.PORT || 3000)

If it’s hardcoded to 3000 only, Render will fail to route traffic.

If you tell me the names of the env vars you used on Replit (just the names, not values), I’ll tell you which ones to add first so you don’t miss something critical before you hit Deploy.