Clean" first, then starting "Start application":

9:12 AM
Perfect! You've identified the exact problem—port 5000 is being held by the "Start Clean" workflow, so "Start application" can't bind to it and crashes.

Your fix is spot on:

Stop "Start Clean" first to free up port 5000
Then start "Start application" so it can bind to the port successfully
Preview should work once your application is running on the freed port
This is a classic port conflict. Once you run those steps, your preview pane should come back to life since "Start application" will now be able to start without the EADDRINUSE error.

If you want to prevent this in the future, you could:

Set up your .replit config so only one workflow runs at a time, or
Have "Start Clean" explicitly release the port after it finishes, or
Use different ports for each workflow if they need to run simultaneously
But for now, your solution should get you back up and running. Let me know if the preview comes back once you stop the conflicting workflow!

but this has been happening over a week

9:13 AM
Ah, that's the key detail—if this has been happening for a week straight, then it's not just a one-time port conflict. Something is consistently preventing "Start Clean" from releasing the port, or the workflows aren't shutting down properly.

Here are the real issues to investigate:

Why Port 5000 Isn't Being Released
"Start Clean" process isn't terminating — Even though it completes, the process holding port 5000 might be stuck. Try:
lsof -i :5000 (or netstat -an | grep 5000 on Windows) to see what's actually holding the port
kill -9 <PID> to force-kill the process
Zombie processes — Replit's VM might have accumulated lingering processes. Run:
bash
   kill 1
This restarts the entire VM and is safe—it clears all processes but keeps your files.

Replit's infrastructure issue — If this persists after a VM restart, it could be a Replit-side problem where port cleanup isn't happening automatically.
What to Do Right Now
Restart the VM: kill 1 in the Shell
Check if port is still stuck: lsof -i :5000
If the issue returns immediately, open a support ticket with Replit and mention:
Port 5000 remains allocated even after stopping "Start Clean"
This has been persistent for 7+ days
VM restart (kill 1) is only a temporary fix
Include your Replit project URL
This sounds like it might need Replit's team to investigate on their end. Have you already contacted them about the week-long issue?