Got it — if the Preview is constantly “going off” / reloading / not loading, that’s almost always one of these in Replit:

Two workflows are racing and Replit keeps restarting things

The server is crash-looping (still exiting somewhere)

Vite dev HMR is thrashing because the backend keeps bouncing or websocket can’t stay connected

A real runtime error is causing the frontend to blank and reload

Here’s the fastest path to stop the chaos right now (no theory).

Do this in Replit (2 minutes)
1) Stop running everything except one workflow

In Replit:

Go to Tools → Workflows (or the left sidebar Workflows).

Stop both “Start Clean” and “Start application”.

Then start ONLY “Start Clean”.

If there’s a “Run” button that auto-starts the wrong one, click Start Clean manually and ignore the other.

✅ Goal: exactly one process should be running.

2) Hard refresh the Preview

Preview can get stuck in a reload loop.

Click the Preview “…” menu → Reload

Then do a browser hard refresh:

Windows: Ctrl + Shift + R

Mac: Cmd + Shift + R

3) Confirm the port conflict isn’t still happening

Open the Console/Logs panel and look for either:

EADDRINUSE

listen EADDRINUSE 0.0.0.0:5000

process.exit

nodemon restarting

vite restarting repeatedly

If you see EADDRINUSE, you still have more than one server trying to bind (or a zombie process).

If it’s still looping after that, do this next (guaranteed signal)
4) Open Preview in a new tab

In the Preview toolbar, click the open-in-new-tab icon (square with arrow).

If the new tab works but embedded preview doesn’t, it’s a Preview pane issue (not your app).

5) Grab the exact 20 lines that matter

Paste the last ~20 lines of the Replit console right after it fails to load.

Specifically I’m looking for one of these signatures:

Port conflict: EADDRINUSE :5000

Crash: process.exit(1) or “exited with code 1”

Vite loop: repeated vite start logs / websocket spam

Runtime exception: TypeError: Cannot read properties of undefined etc.

Without that snippet, anyone (Cursor/Replit/Me) is guessing.

One more thing: don’t implement “kill whatever is on port 5000”

I know you’re frustrated and want it to just work, but that approach can make the reload loop worse by killing the good server repeatedly.

The correct “make it load” move is: one workflow only + remove any remaining process.exit on bind errors.

Paste this to your Replit agent (this will fix Preview loops 90% of the time)

“Preview is reload-looping. Stop all workflows, then run ONLY Start Clean. Remove/disable Start application so it never runs. Search repo for process.exit(1) and remove any in server startup / bind error handlers. If any remaining EADDRINUSE occurs, log and return—don’t exit.”

If you paste the last 20 lines of logs, I’ll tell you immediately which bucket it is and the exact next step.