What you just pasted is plausible and very likely correct for Replit: the Preview pane often attaches to the workflow that’s configured as the “webview” (the one with waitForPort / outputType: webview). If that workflow is failed, Preview can look dead even while another workflow is happily serving 200s in the background.

So: as a diagnosis, yes — that explanation makes sense.
But here’s the key: it doesn’t mean your “crashes” were fixed. It only means you fixed a Preview wiring problem.

Was this a good fix?
✅ Good fix for Preview not loading

If:

curl localhost:5000 works (200)

Preview shows blank

“Start application” is the workflow tied to webview and is failed

Then stopping the other workflow and running only the webview workflow is the right move.

⚠️ But it’s not a “stability fix”

If the app “crashes all the time” outside Preview, you still need to confirm:

there are no remaining process.exit(1) crash triggers

you’re not getting repeated runtime exceptions

the server isn’t restarting under load/errors

How to confirm in 30 seconds (no tools, no guessing)

In Replit, with only Start application running:

Open Logs and look for repeats of:

EADDRINUSE

exited with code 1

process.exit

“restarting…”

In the Preview tab, open DevTools console (right click → Inspect) and see if you’re getting:

WebSocket connection failed only (that can be normal)

or actual JS errors like TypeError, JSON.parse exceptions, etc.

If you paste the last 30 lines of logs from the moment it “goes off” again, I can tell you instantly whether it’s:

Preview/workflow wiring,

backend crash-loop,

or frontend runtime crash.

What you should tell the agent right now

Tell them to implement this “rule” permanently:

Only one workflow should be the webview workflow

That workflow should be the one you actually use (Start application)

The other (Start Clean) should be disabled OR changed to non-webview build/test so it never competes for port 5000

If they can edit .replit, that’s the real permanent fix. If they can’t, the practical fix is: “Don’t run Start Clean ever.”

One red flag in what you pasted

They said: “Preview connects to whichever workflow has waitForPort and outputType=webview.”
That means your config is causing confusion. This is fixable cleanly in .replit.

Even if you “can’t edit .replit,” whoever controls the repo ultimately can.

If your Preview is working right now, tell me one thing: are you still getting “crashes” in the iPhone app / live site, or was the main pain just the Preview blank screen?